Global Members :-

1. Static Members
    a) static variable
    b) static method
    c) static block or static intializer block

2. Non Satitic members 
    a) Non-static variable
    b) Non-static static method
    c)non-static bock Instance intilizer bloack
    d)constructor   

Golbal variable is assigned with default value of 0.
it is of two types static and non static :-

static vairable:
    A variable which is declared inside class area or global area with static keyword is 
    known as static variable .
    It is a type of global variable.
    We can use without intialization becuase it can store default values.

    default values:
    byte,short , int, long  = 0
    foat , double = 0.0
    char  = 
    boolean = false
    string = null

    Write the difference between local and global variable

    local var can be used inside block only 

    Whenever we have static variable and local variable with same name if we use directly 
    inside static context the high priority is given to the local variable to use 
    static variable we have to consider class nam -> class name.var

    for execution program jvm have some memory ares.
    1.class static area :
        Every class will have a dedicated memory to store all static memners is known as 
        class static area.
        The name of class Static area is as same as ClassName.
        Every static context is directly poiting towards class static area.

    2.Stack area :
        It is used for executio.
    3.heap area

    Note: for execution jvm first call main method 

    can we overload main method

    how to create object ?
     by using new keyword. 
     it is unary operator.
     with the help of new keyword we can create an numbers of object for one class.
     it will retrun addresss of an object.
     whenever we are using new keyword new object will be created.

     how to use non static members inside staic context ?
     -> with the help of object reference variable

     write  a difference between static and non static variable 

     static variable 
        belongs to the class 
        only one copy is created 
        and it shared by all objects
        
    non static variable 
        belongs to the obj 
        seperate copy for each object


    non static block:
        static and non static blocks does not have access modifier, return type , name and formal
        arguments.

    
