Multithreading

Multithreading in Java is the process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

A thread is basically a lightweight sub-process and the smallest unit of processing.

Threads are independent. If an exception occurs in one thread, it does not affect other threads.

Both multiprocessing and multithreading are used to achieve multitasking.
But we prefer multithreading over multiprocessing because threads share a common memory area. They do not allocate separate memory, which saves memory, and context switching between threads takes less time than between processes.

Java multithreading is mostly used in games, animations, and real-time applications.

Advantages of Java Multithreading

    It does not block the user because threads are independent and multiple operations can be performed at the same time.
    It saves time by performing multiple tasks simultaneously.
    Threads are independent, so an exception in one thread does not affect other threads.

Multitasking

Multitasking is the process of executing multiple tasks simultaneously.
It is used to utilize the CPU efficiently.

Multitasking can be achieved in two ways:

Process-based multitasking (Multiprocessing)

Thread-based multitasking (Multithreading)

Process-Based Multitasking (Multiprocessing)

    Each process has its own address space in memory.
    Each process allocates a separate memory area.
    A process is heavyweight.
    The cost of communication between processes is high.
    Switching from one process to another requires time for saving and loading registers, memory maps, and updating lists.

Thread-Based Multitasking (Multithreading)

    Threads share the same address space.
    A thread is lightweight.
    The cost of communication between threads is low.

Life  cycle of a Thread(Thread states):
1. new 
2.runnable 
3.running
4.non-runnable(blocked)
5.Terminated

The life cycle of the thread in java is controlled by JVM.

1> NEW : The thread is in new ste if you create an instoance of thread class but before the invocation of start() method.

2> Runnable: the thread is in runable state after invocation of start() method,but the thread scheduler has not selected it to be the running thread.

3> Running : the thread is in running satate if the thread scheduer has selected it.

4> NOn-runable (blocked): this is the satate when the thread is still alive , but is currently not eligible to run .

5> Terminated: A thread is in Terminated or daead state when its run() method exits.

How to create thread?

by extending thread class 
by implementing runnable interface.

Thread class:
thread class provide constructors and methods to create and perform operations on threads.


Commonly used methods of Thread class:

1. public void run(): Is used to perform action for a thread.
2. public void start(): Starts the execution of the thread. JVM calls the run() method on the thread.
3. public static void sleep(long milliseconds): Causes the currently executing thread to sleep (temporarily cease execution) for the specified number of milliseconds.
4. public void join(): Waits for a thread to die.
5. public void join(long milliseconds): Waits for a thread to die for the specified milliseconds.
6. public int getPriority(): Returns the priority of the thread.
7. public int setPriority(int priority): Changes the priority of the thread.
8. public String getName(): Returns the name of the thread.
9. public void setName(String name): Changes the name of the thread.
10. public Thread currentThread(): Returns the reference of currently executing thread.
11. public int getId(): Returns the id of the thread.
12. public Thread.State getState(): Returns the state of the thread.
13. public boolean isAlive(): Tests if the thread is alive.
14. public void yield(): Causes the currently executing thread object to temporarily pause and allow other threads to execute.
15. public void suspend(): Is used to suspend the thread (deprecated).
16. public void resume(): Is used to resume the suspended thread (deprecated).
17. public void stop(): Is used to stop the thread (deprecated).
18. public boolean isDaemon(): Tests if the thread is a daemon thread.
19. public void setDaemon(boolean b): Marks the thread as daemon or user thread.
20. public void interrupt(): Interrupts the thread.
21. public boolean isInterrupted(): Tests if the thread has been interrupted.
22. public static boolean interrupted(): Tests if the current thread has been interrupted.



Runnable interface: 
	The Runnable interface should be implemented by any class whose instances are intended to be executed by a 
	thread. Runnable interface have only one method named run().
	
	public void run(): is used to perform action for a thread.


Thread Scheduler in java

Thread scheduler in java is the part of the jvm that decides which thread should run.
There is no guarantee that which runnable thread will be chosen to run by the thread scheduler/
only one thread at a time can run in a single process